So really,
that's all I wanna say around that
particular process of running projects.
So before we get into how to go about
producing initial design, I just wanna
come at you very hard with a lot of
information in a short length of time.
So I wanna give you an opportunity
to ask some questions.
If you happen to be
watching this not live,
I'm always open to answering
questions via email as well.
You're more than welcome to
drop me an email anytime.
Once you get the slide deck,
you've got my email address.
Feel free to use it.
Now, I know you had a question
because you work in-house, don't you?
So tell me about your situation.
>> So a lot of times, we don't design.
I mean,
we kinda squeeze a lot of design process
to do early tests on certain things,
specific things like if
we do a drop-down instead
of a button or
if we do a series of buttons.
We call that AB testing, but
it's kind of like discovery, in a way.
>> Yeah.
>> Where do you see that factored in to
the design process?
>> Yeah, so what you're talking
about there is the kind of micro
projects that you run internally
to optimize something over time
rather than the big project like
redesigning a whole website.
Actually, I'll still use that same
basic process in that situation.
But it's a very, very small scale
because the project is very, very small.
So my discovery phase is really validating
the problem in the first place.
So typically, let's say, for example,
you've got a form that's underperforming,
right, on the website.
So first of all,
you've got to identify that that
form is actually underperforming.
So that's where you look
at your analytics, and
your analytics will basically confirm
that there's dropouts from that page or
whatever else, so
that you do that as part of the discovery.
Then you'd probably look at some heatmaps
or session recording of that page.
That's where something like Microsoft
Clarity comes in if you want something
free or I suspect you guys have something
like Hotjar or something like that.
So then you're validating where
on the page that form is failing.
Is it this drop-down menu?
Yeah, we can see it is from users.
So that's your discovery phase
is defining the problem, okay?
Your prototyping stage is
what you just described.
If we remove the drop-down menu and
we try buttons instead,
we create a little mock-up of that,
see whether that works.
Now, how you test that, you're talking
about testing it with some AB testing.
That's absolutely valid because if you can
throw something together very quick and
easy in that situation that you can
run a real AB test on, that's awesome.
The only thing that I would
say is with AB testing,
you're learning why a problem.
No, so you're learning that
something works or doesn't,
but you're not necessarily learning
anything about why, if that makes sense.
So actually, I tend to favor kind
of usability testing at that stage,
not facilitated, not that I have to
sit down and watch all these people.
But basically, you send out a link,
let them try it,
let them talk over as they're doing it.
So you get some more
insights that way I find.
And then from there, once that's been
done, once you're happy with it,
it goes into build where you
launch it on your website.
Then your equivalent of the live stage,
right, so
you've pushed it live now, that's
the point where I would do the AB testing.
And I would see how well it's performing
compared to what we had before.
So it's exactly the same stages,
it's just in a really kind of micro way.
Does that answer the question?
Good, what have we got in the chat room?
>> Does Paul consider getting content
created to be an important part of
the process or does he prefer to delegate
all the words to the stakeholders?
>> No, I do not prefer to delegate
all the words to the stakeholders.
Look, I mean, that is a whole
workshop in itself, that question.
It's a really good question.
Basically, content, yeah, in your
discovery phase, right at the very front,
you wanna involve all
the key stakeholders, right,
which will include the content creators,
includes the developer.
When you get to the prototyping stage,
I would heavily involve the content
creators at that point.
When I do a grayscale wireframes,
that is with first draft content in it.
It doesn't need to be perfect.
It doesn't need to be 100%, doesn't have
to even have the right tone of voice.
But I need to know what content
is gonna go where on the page,
what messaging is gonna be communicated.
So yes, your content creators should
be very, very much involved in that.
That said,
it's not always possible because
content is often created by people
that aren't full time in that role.
And so as a result, they're always
a bit slow in delivering that.
So what I would suggest in those
kinds of situations is that
actually you draft first go content.
Now you might think, whoa,
I'm not a copywriter.
I'm not good at any of that.
It doesn't need to be good, right?
In fact, almost if it's bad,
that's better.
[LAUGH] I know it sounds so weird.
What you will do is you will identify
what kinds of content needs to go
into different places.
So let's say you're designing a homepage.
You'll go, okay, we want benefits here.
Here are the three benefits
that spring to my mind, right?
Doesn't need to be researched,
doesn't need to be considered,
doesn't need to be anything.
The role of you putting real content in
is you set a placeholder on the page that
says benefits are going in here,
right, which is good.
And secondly, because your
content might be not very good,
then what will happen is that
forces the content creators.
They suddenly go, no, no,
no, we're not having that.
And so they'll put something else in.
So it's a way of kind of
forcing them into action.
But yeah,
you should absolutely integrate them.
You should be using real content
from the very beginning.
Never go with lorem ipsum ever.
I know it's so tempting,
but please don't do that.
>> You have been using websites as
an example of deliverable per project.
>> Yeah.
>> How much of this advice pertains to
products such as web apps or mobile apps?
>> It applies 100%.
Sorry, I'm showing a little bit my bias
in the kind of work I do, I suspect.
I do a lot of conversion rate optimization
work on effectively marketing websites.
But no, I also over the years have
worked extensively on web apps and
exactly the same principle applies.
All the way, I can't think of anything
I've said that doesn't apply to that.
If they can think of any
particular problem that maybe
what I've suggested doesn't work with,
then by all means,
let me know through the chat and
we'll discuss it.
But now, I would say it's pretty much
consistent across the whole thing.
Yeah, I tend to use shortcuts.
I say the word website when I
mean web app and mobile app.
I also use the word client when I mean
internal stakeholders as well, so
apologies for that.
>> Yeah, I think from my perspective,
that's the biggest difference is
usually in the agency world, you have
an external client who's paying the bills.
>> Yeah.
>> Whereas it's management and
product situation.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're not
necessarily paying your bills,
where you have to sell them on a process.
You just have to have a process and
go through.
>> Yeah, yes and no, I think I've
worked with a lot of in-house teams.
And actually, there's not as
big a difference as you think.
The way you described it is 100% right,
but actually,
I think a manager can almost be more
problematic than a client sometimes.
Because with a client,
if I set the relationship up right,
then the client that I'm working
with is my peer, my equal, right?
So I can turn around and say, no,
I don't think that is appropriate.
We're not going down that road.
That can be quite hard to do with
someone who's your line manager, right?
You feel of a bigger obligation to kind of
roll over and do whatever they ask you.
So actually, you do need to sell
just as hard, if not harder,
to justify what you're doing and
why you're doing it.
At least that's been my experience, but
other people might have
had different experiences.
I guess it depends on the kind of
boss you've had over the years.
I had some terrible bosses [LAUGH] so
that could be probably clouding my view.